Feat/signer requests and off chain message signing (#8)
StakeNow/tzip: drafts/draft-offchain-message-signing.md

---
tzip: tbd
title: Off-Chain Message Signing
status: Draft
author: Klas Harrysson <klas@kukai.app>, Carlo van Driesten <carlo.van-driesten@vdl.digital>
type: I
created: 2024-02-21
date: To be determined
requires: ["draft-signer-requests"]
---

## Abstract

> There is no formal message signing standard for Tezos yet. Message signing has many use cases. It can for example be used for code signing, so that authenticity and integrity can be validated. Right now decentralized applications (dApps) and wallets are relying on an informal way of doing message signing by using Michelson data (magic byte `0x05`), something it was never intended for. In addition the [failing_noop (tag 17)][] was not adopted for the use of off-chain messages due to the lack of documentation. This TZIP aims to solve that problem and defines a standard that is simple, secure, future-proof and compatible with hardware wallets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no formal message signing standard for Tezos yet. Message signing has many use cases. It can for example be used for code signing, so that authenticity and integrity can be validated. Right now decentralized applications (dApps) and wallets are relying on an informal way of doing message signing by using Michelson data (magic byte `0x05`), something it was never intended for. In addition the [failing_noop (tag 17)][] was not adopted for the use of off-chain messages due to the lack of documentation. This TZIP aims to solve that problem and defines a standard that is simple, secure, extendable and compatible with hardware wallets.
```
remove "future-proofed" since we decided to remove versioning. Extendable thanks to the interface and backwards compatability

## Validation

* The wallet MUST enforce strict validation to ensure there is no deviation in any way from the expected data format.
* The wallet implementers MUST display the public key hash associated to the private key used for signing the message.
* Wallet implementers displaying the message as plaintext to the user SHOULD require the user to scroll to the bottom of the text area prior to signing.

## Test vectors

### Encoding & signing

```
message = "Hello world!"

interface = "tzip://tbd"

=>

bytes = 0x8074657a6f73207369676e6564206f6666636861696e206d6573736167650a747a69703a2f2f74626400000c48656c6c6f20776f726c6421

# Wallet
mnemonic = "all all all all all all all all all all all all"
derivation_path = m/44'/1729'/0'/0' (slip-10)
private_key = edskRgEboayXzSZHW5wK2beB4aZtfQtuc2ywwjPmSQYCg7unpVT2Sr1KUSzX9hNLJC25YcB4qZ1Wotu6EuDveWY4jkiKQr9H3k

=>

signature = edsigtvazvxVHsofbakqvqHtQGiYZBxNg8hfY45escmFpLTYeBjjBFUTt254UARm93qHpbQugGU5fmJWdf3Cm5FNMcP7oYPsa7c
```

## References

* [failing_noop (tag 17)][] - A possible solution to encode a signed message for off-chain usage.

> * [PACK encoding][] - An encoding used in LIGO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [PACK encoding][] - A Michelson instruction for encoding and decoding.
```

> * [PACK encoding][] - An encoding used in LIGO.

Reviewer: PACK is a Michelson instruction
